Where does Elden Ring take place? What does it mean to be Tarnished? What's the Elden Ring lore you need to know? With time to piece together the story and setting and get to grips with everything, we've gone hunting through Elden Ring to help you understand the story a little more. Don't worry, this is more just about explaining the set-up for the game - there's no real spoilers here for you to deal with, we're just putting your frantic dragon battles and knightly duels in some context, helping to explain the intro cinematic and the setting a little.
Oh, and before getting into this lore rabbit hole, we should stress that this is just one interpretation of the basic premise of Elden Ring, the cryptically impenetrable FromSoftware games being what they are. In fact, you may find that your own interpretation of the story of Elden Ring changes as you play, leading you to different conclusions. Either way, here's an explanation of where Elden Ring takes place, the basic lore, and what being Tarnished means.
The world of Elden Ring is called the Lands Between – a large realm ruled by demigods and blessed by the power of the Elden Ring and the Erdtree. A meme that you might have seen doing the rounds joked that Elden Ring is in fact set in the US state of Ohio, but, unsurprisingly, this is false. The lands of the Lands Between are simply one giant, mystical continent surrounded by water. We’ve found the Elden Ring map fragments, so take a look to get the lay of the land.

The Lands Between and the world of Elden Ring is completely new and separate from previous FromSoftware titles. While the world has still been developed by Hidetaka Miyazaki and the FromSoftware team, George R. R. Martin, author of the "A Song of Ice and Fire" series that was the basis for Game of Thrones, was also brought on to assist with developing the world and mythos of Elden Ring.

You, the player, will start your Elden Ring journey in a region to the south known as Limgrave – a relatively nice-looking area that features grassy plains, valleys, woods, cliffs, and ancient ruins. As you explore, you’ll eventually come across the disease-blighted region of Caelid that’s full of undead horrors, the misty wetlands of Liurnia, and numerous more varied regions with their own environments and creatures.
The basics of the Elden Ring story are that the Lands Between were blessed by the Greater Will (a type of unknowable god obsessed with Order over Chaos), who sent down the Elden Ring – a magical object that changed the Lands Between according to its whims. The Elden Ring was housed within a giant, golden, spectral tree known as the Erdtree. With this power, the Erdtree was able to bless the land and its inhabitants with the grace of the Elden Ring, creating an incredibly orderly reality. 

The Lands Between were ruled over by Queen Marika the Eternal, a being chosen by the Greater Will, who acted as a guardian and keeper of the Elden Ring and had numerous children. She also purposefully altered it and removed the Rune of Destined Death, making anybody under the Grace of the Elden Ring immortal. All people were affected in this way, but the Elden Ring and Erdtree seemed to reject some of them, marking them as Tarnished who were sent into exile. They still couldn't die, but they had been marked as unworthy in some way.

Marika had two husbands at different times during her rule: Godfrey, who became Tarnished himself and went into exile, then Radagon, the mysterious red-haired warrior. Both of these men became Elden Lords and gained much divine power through this union with Marika - in fact, while Marika is a supremely powerful being, her consorts, aka the Elden Lords, seem to be almost as powerful as she is.
